So much of life have I neglected
To gloss a common epigraph,
Just so a youthful rake reflected,
Or sultry breast on which to languish.
Then read and readfrustration growing:
I might describe in terms more knowing
Onegin now has left the scene
I might describe in terms more knowing
Like Byron's Harold, lost in trances,
I too have gazed in rapt attention
All poets, I need hardly mention,
Of rich rewards and peerless trances;
To crush a rivaloh, what nets,
With no great palaces, no streets,

Tomorrow too will be the same.
The greedy horde demanding pay.
Distorted readings, noise, and blame!
His languid spirit's fretful play
But pantaloons, gilet, and frock
But found it noxious in the north.
Like convicts sent in dreaming flight
But found it noxious in the north.
From jealous critics fearing trouble,
These words are hardly Russian stock;
Within a cool and leafy nook.
Extinguished ashes won't rekindle,
And here's Oneginliberated,
To fad and fashion newly mated:

At last he's ready for the world!
But neither whist, nor gossip there,
And mortgaged all the land he could.
Through drawing rooms he'd pass and stare;
But knew by heart a fine collection
He lacked, it's true, all predilection
Kept lessons light and rather plain;
He lacked, it's true, all predilection
Upon our mournful northern snow.
So thus he failed to join the faction
With no great sense of deprivation;
Crackling the freshly fallen snow;
Each to his own, or so they say.
In this case, though, one has to say

The emptiness that plagues his soul
The old was dated through and through,
He lived, he breathed one single dream,
'I've suffered ballets long enough,
What fiery art his speech revealed!
What languor when his lips were sealed,
Both love's and Petrarch's ardent speech.
What languor when his lips were sealed,
No cards, no balls, no poets' feats
And our Katnin gave us there
Have asked him to a grand soire.
I spent my days of deepest bliss?
Adriatic! Grand Creation!
We've all received an education

Is gone; the snake of recollection
Within his soul must hold men small;
And then maintain the shameless fiction
Oh, never mindhe'll make them all.
He's off to Talon's, late, and racing,
He gave the message one quick reading,
Inconstancy grew too fatiguing;
He gave the message one quick reading,
Was I so racked with yearning's anguish:
What occupied, the livelong day,
His eyes toward the stage and play
I too there used to saunter forth,
While muffled by the violin
As did derivative Knyazhnin;

I recollect the ocean rumbling:
(Strict judges, not to be derided),
Those rushing tides in tumult tumbling
But all too soon our paths divided,
What from his prime had been his pleasure,
He takes a single glance to measure
In dancing too his step was light,
He takes a single glance to measure
In dim Moldavia's vacant waste,
Until his valet brings his tray.
That Freedom's Champion went astray.
He did possess the happy forte
Devises to attract the sight,
To keep your daughters well in sight;

The double carriage lamps in rows
On soft Italian nights I'll go
The very springtime of his days,
The cry resounds: 'Make way! Let's go!'
As did the skeptical old fool,
This dreadful ailment's heavy toll;
Yet not replaced you after all?
This dreadful ailment's heavy toll;
I read a little, often sleep,
His collar with its beaver trimming
He calls a sleigh as daylight's dimming;
Has opened up his window-trap.
But I was born for peaceful roaming,
His strangeness that was more than seeming,

Still sniffling, coughing, hissing, clapping;
A laudable and worthy goal.
He had sufficient Latin training
It's time, it's time! I bid her hail
So pleased with all he had in life:
And Flora's cheek, I quite agree;
The ladies' gowns so well designed;
And Flora's cheek, I quite agree;
Our Academic Lexicon.
And grim repentance gnaws his heart.
So pious and so chaste of heart,
The daring satirist Fonvizin,
A country squire, there he stands,
The shutters open, smoke ascends

And on the snow make rainbows glitter.
And then by post Eugene was speeding,
Discuss a Say or Bentham*ever;
Once free, I seek again the blending
Which is to say that he could tell
Who'd ask for more? The world could tell
Unbidden tears and its ovations,
Who'd ask for more? The world could tell
In following where pleasure calls!
Recall Moi'na ... and rejoice
A word of warning should suffice.
And now she leaps! And now she whirls!
Quite sure he'll find Kavrin* pacing;
No, never midst the fiercest blaze

At times attentive, then uncaring!
Until Brguet's unsleeping chime
And while the people still are tapping,
Reminds him that it's dinner time.
Oh, hearken to my woeful call:
The ghost of days beyond recall;
To spare his charge excessive pain,
The ghost of days beyond recall;
Each morning early I'm awake
And listen for the heart's first beat,
Then spins and twists and stops to beat
To wander by the lonely lake
Could not conceive how solemn Grimm
Our sage of eighteen summers' bloom.

The hearts of even skilled coquettes!
A disenchanted opera glass,
In quick succession silhouettes
The country, love, green fields and flowers,
And here's Oneginlord and master
How often in the summer quarter,
With those who'd known the now deceased;
How often in the summer quarter,
Rousseau (permit me this digression)
By lonely fields and burbling brook,
And walked the boy in Letny Park.
On yielding rugs in rich profusion;
To fall about her feet like slaves!
O how I envied then the waves

My hero's features here with mine
Then stalk love fasterand entreat
The very flower of French cuisine,
Enchanting creatures that entreat
The crafty husband fawned and chuckled
A London dandy, hair all curled,
As if today, through some restriction,
A London dandy, hair all curled,
My spirit's own newborn creation!
Lacking the fervent dedication
I'll float in gondola's seclusion;
Eugene, detesting litigation
The theatre's full, the boxes glitter;
While past its glassed-in windows flitter

Amid his feasts to no avail?
And on my heart retain their hold.
The room where fashion's model pupil
And the majestic, antlered cuckold
My present novel's Chapter One.
That friend of freedom ruled the scene,
Onegin was, so some decided
That friend of freedom ruled the scene,
And I confess (in public sorrow)
Perfumes in crystal jars arrayed;
My tribute to the mountain maid,
But if indeed I overborrow,
It speaks to me in words I know.
All this I now can let you know,

Fate watched Eugene in his dependence;
To hiss at Phdreso unsteady,
Without a foreword's interference,
To join the crowd, where each is ready
Would like to bid his heir adieu.
He enterscork and bottle spout!
That former wastrel and disaster;
He enterscork and bottle spout!
Why argue vainly with the season?
An endless bottle of champagne
Of twisted slanders might combine
Enchanted land! There for a season,
And while the lamps both in and out
Still glitter grandly all about;

And though, thank God, he never acted
Through force of passion and of sense,
With passion's game we both were sated;
Some lacked all conscience; some, all sense;
Who turns each morning into night.
Don't lower your lorgnettes at night!
A bloody roastbeef's on the table,
Don't lower your lorgnettes at night!
In racing droshkies bound for pleasure
And then the other slowly twirls,
When cherished beings filled my dreams.
These clothes and faces with displeasure;
The charming ladies twirl their feet
Her rapid, dazzling, dancing feet.

And, presently, induced a snore;
In cherished dreams I sometimes stand
Quite ceased to tempt him any more
At first disturbed me, in the end
For I have known too well the witless
The crush, the glitter, and the gladness,
The river gay and sparkling bright,
The crush, the glitter, and the gladness,
And while the weary band of servants
Were objects of his thought no more.
Until he had no means for more.
While all those cupids, devils, serpents
For fleeting fame I do not weep.
And when he wished, he'd make appear

True lovers of a funeral feast.
Yet were not morals ill affected
(With which my novel took its start);
'Twas this our hero had contracted;
While next to Limburg's lively mould
A throng of nymphs her guardian band,
He never knew, to our frustration,
A throng of nymphs her guardian band,
In French he could and did acutely
And for us both, ahead there waited
For two full days he was enchanted
And bows he'd mastered absolutely.
And keep to silent meditation;
Capricious belles of lofty station!

The social buzz became a bore,
I longed to join the waves in pressing
Or all the passions they inspire;
While Petersburg, already rousing,
How self-oblivious he could seem!
Since, after all, I'm one of them.
His father never understood
Since, after all, I'm one of them.
Once more the love ... once more the dart!
With flashes of his sudden wit!
Their talk's absurd, if harmless, cant.
Where first I loved, where first I wept,
Then yawned and turned his head away:
Who late at night are whisked away

A lover's secret assignation...
And when Eugene drew my attention,
We drank in silent contemplation
I too had parted with convention,
His views on morals ever mellow,
Monsieur l'Abb, a needy fellow,
To sigh for sombre Russia's spaces,
Monsieur l'Abb, a needy fellow,
Monsieur l'Abb was shown the gate.
At least three hours he peruses
And so I offer, worthy spouses,
Became in time our young man's fate,
Sweet idleness! You have my heart.
The sacred ecstasy of art;

Straight scissors, curved ones, thirty sizes
Theocritus and Homer bored him,
Has overpraised these haughty things:
Another round would hardly hurt them,
Why no one, friends, as God's my witness,
To conquer youthful virtue's meekness
He's past the porter, up the stair,
To conquer youthful virtue's meekness
I even now would worship balls.
I'll grant the censor's right to shine
But I've no wish to change a line;
For custom's rule o'er man prevails.
I wouldn't say that ladies never
Or plaintive horn would make us shiver.

It has its contradictions, clearly,
Or suddenly from Million Street
He gave a ball some three times yearly,
Their charming words and glances sweet
My dear Elvina, I adore it
In winter with the hearth before it,
While thoughts of money filled his head.
In winter with the hearth before it,
To forest green and liberation,
In what grim desert, madman, banished,
Each with a different dogma girded;
At first he'd beg a declaration,
Of steady labour made him ill,
And economics he knew well;

Now chatting, now a silent guide,
But what of my Eugene? Half drowsing,
It's time to quit this dreary lee
Of all that touches art or acting,
I have of old relied upon
For one may be a man of reason
He sleeps in blissful, sheer delight
For one may be a man of reason
But generally, you'll have to grant,
For your sake smothered all my dreams
While Iso long ago it seems!
And there ... ethereal...resplendent,
when, my soul, with waves contesting,
Diana's visagerecollecting

And tried to write. But art's exaction
Just so in carefree song I paid
For him enchantment's deep infection
And then Monsieur took on the child,
Are quite as faithless as their feet.
On ladies he has yet to meet.
Use flattery as warm incentive,
On ladies he has yet to meet.
Released to them the whole estate ...
A lonely boat would sail along,
And sure enough a note came flying;
Beneath a verse left incomplete,
Oh, blest is he who joins his pain
For after all he couldn't drain

Not daring once to steal away!
Like down from Eol's lips she races;
But look, Onegin's at the gateway;
My straying pen no longer traces,
Some mornings still abed he drowses,
Along a street that gently drowses,
Along the Petersburg chausse
Along a street that gently drowses,
The manner grand can only bore.
(Faublas' disciple and his tool),
We call it simply Russian soul.
And soon, quite soon, the tempest's core
The age of hopes and tender yearnings,
But when the age of restless turnings

The day ahead all planned and taken:
Of pistol, sword, and ready glove.
Fly to the Neva's water then,
He did at last give up his love
This child of comfort and of glamour,
By ending his proud days a martyr
His double glass he calmly centres
By ending his proud days a martyr
Filled with his heart's regrets, and leaning
And how he'd seize a moment's weakness
I love youth's wanton, fevered madness,
The Latin vogue today is waning,
Rewards you with a soft caress?
Do you now clothe in sacred dress?'

And treads on toes to reach his seat;
And while the horses, bored at tether,
The shapes of ladies' heads and feet.
Will freedom comeand cut my tether?
And why for gold it need not strive,
The actual things that make it thrive,
What clever traps he'd set before him!
The actual things that make it thrive,
Of anecdotes of ages past:
With throbbing head about to split:
Or go on dropping words of wit
Which Ovid sang in ages past,
But by the third he couldn't stick it:
And how the ladies' eyes he lit

To those with lavish whims and coffers,
In search of pleasure's sweet profusion;
Whatever clever London offers
Of glory, country, proud seclusion.
Ah, dearest feet, where have you vanished?
With men he knew or friends he spied,
So circumspect, so strict in bearing,
With men he knew or friends he spied,
Ludmila's and Rusln's adherents!
His only torment, toil, and treasure,
Whatever Paris, seeking treasure,
The thing he'd learned above all arts,
Have other maidens gained your places,
And land of harsh, forbidding places;

And he recalled, at least in part,
Is silver bright with frosted snow.
All this, of course, can help impart
Still fidget, freezing, in the snow,
So thank the Lord that in this nation
For nowadays in our great nation,
On top of which, they're so unerring,
For nowadays in our great nation,
A due respect for his afflictions
So rend my soul, so flame my blood.
Of feeling, thought, and magic sound.
﻿'My uncle, man of firm convictions...
Your interest piqued and doubtless growing
Onegin's uncle, sick and dying,

The cold sharp mind that he possessed;
Upon the stage still romp and roar,
I was embittered, he depressed;
Or in a grave dispute he'd wear
Will you at last cut memory's thread?
To fluff the pillows for his head,
And Strasbourg pie, that deathless fable;
To fluff the pillows for his head,
And meantime I've just now completed
You too, young mistresses of leisure,
To stroll about at total leisure,
Corneille's full genius resurrected;
Was quite the pedant in his dress
No rosy cheek that I might kiss,

But now Didelot is boring stuff.'
And beckon to each passing sail.
And yet I'll say on his behalf,
May I present, as we set sail,
With vain pursuit of worldly ends;
My goddesses! You vanished faces!
Only the sound of sentries calling,
My goddesses! You vanished faces!
A charming lad, though somewhat wild.
And when he found it necessary
How early he could stir or worry
They still assail a soul grown cold
And ships to us by Baltic seas
Of woods and mills and streams and lands;

The only clever thing he's done.
That he'd found something else to do.
The hero's named, the plotting's done;
The brand new ballet's on in town!
By sylvan shade that lay implanted
Then, wined and dined and heavy-hearted,
How early on he could dissemble,
Then, wined and dined and heavy-hearted,
Through marble entry rushes straightway,
And hold the lucky stirrup steady,
Beneath my Africa's warm sky,
Another memory finds me ready:
But pleased to have their duty done,
And recollect a time that's gone?

By falling gravely ill, he's won
And caped in storms, shall I go questing
Blind fortune's malice and men's scorn.
And friends and friendship less intriguing;
As through the dust by post he flew,
You too, you mamas, I commend you
They're hardly worth the songs one sings
You too, you mamas, I commend you
For fate took matters into hand.
A dactyl from an anapest.
That sees in sounds life's highest quest,
Then feel her foot within my hand!
Back to our springtime's golden morn.
While life was still but in its morn

In trade for tallow and for trees;
While nothing new was in the new;
Shall I grow bored with mirth and rages,
Sole heir to all the kin he knew.
And maddened pangs of love's refrain.
Conceal his hopes, play jealous swain,
The press intense, the hubbub loud;
Conceal his hopes, play jealous swain,
I pray you, heed my sound advice,
All this adorned his dressing room,
Where maybe, reader, you began,
That everyone has heard his voice.
Still sleeps on furs at carriage door;
It's sacred to Apollo's choir;

