(As once some poet drew himselP).
Upon the crossroads of the sea?
His former love of life was dead.
And entertain the nearly dead,
While thoughts of money filled his head.
To put a bullet through his head,
To fluff the pillows for his head,
Will you at last cut memory's thread?
What vernal flowers do you tread?
Already bored, to uncle's bed,
Far from the Rome his heart embraced.
I've drawn a plan and know what's needed,
Onegin was, so some decided
Eugene and I had both decided

(Strict judges, not to be derided),
But all too soon our paths divided,
Each with a different dogma girded;
In what grim desert, madman, banished,
Ah, dearest feet, where have you vanished?
With men he knew or friends he spied,
What languor when his lips were sealed,
What fiery art his speech revealed!
The crafty husband fawned and chuckled
A London dandy, hair all curled,
The ladies' gowns so well designed;
To make the foreign tour we'd planned;
That, like proud Byron, I have penned
He turned at last and vaguely fluttered

'It's time for something new,' he muttered,
With those who'd known the now deceased;
I was embittered, he depressed;
The cold sharp mind that he possessed;
To fad and fashion newly mated:
And here's Oneginliberated,
With passion's game we both were sated;
And though, thank God, he never acted
'Twas this our hero had contracted;
Yet were not morals ill affected
Didelot his crown of fame perfected.
By mighty Zeus's will elected
Just so a youthful rake reflected,
So much of life have I neglected

And round Eugene there soon collected
His father diedquite unexpected,
Corneille's full genius resurrected;
And meantime I've just now completed
And for us both, ahead there waited
For two full days he was enchanted
By sylvan shade that lay implanted
Then, wined and dined and heavy-hearted,
They laid to rest the dear departed;
So books, like women, he deserted,
Fine china, bronzesall displayed;
Perfumes in crystal jars arrayed;
My tribute to the mountain maid,
Just so in carefree song I paid

And then Monsieur took on the child,
A charming lad, though somewhat wild.
They still assail a soul grown cold
Sits ananas in splendid gold.
And on my heart retain their hold.
And the majestic, antlered cuckold
At last he's ready for the world!
And mortgaged all the land he could.
While next to Limburg's lively mould
A throng of nymphs her guardian band,
For fate took matters into hand.
Then feel her foot within my hand!
Istmina takes up her stand.
In cherished dreams I sometimes stand

At first disturbed me, in the end
A mere self-portrait in the end;
And though the language of my friend
I love their feetalthough you'll find
And cleared the darkened mind she found.
A laid-out corpse was what he found,
Prepared as tribute for the ground.
Of feeling, thought, and magic sound.
So rend my soul, so flame my blood.
No, never once did passion's flood
His father never understood
He drives to Nevsky Boulevard,
The press intense, the hubbub loud;
He draped a linen mourning shroud.

A bold mazurka grips the crowd,
And over all that dusty crowd
All gone are youth's bright years of grace,
As from the meadow your light trace.
A word of warning should suffice.
Recall Moi'na ... and rejoice
O Brenta! I shall yet rejoice,
I hear at last your magic voice!
That everyone has heard his voice.
I pray you, heed my sound advice,
Or see the Russian muse of dance
At first Madame was in attendance;
Fate watched Eugene in his dependence;
Without a foreword's interference,

A fair Venetian at my side,
Then trading bows on every side
Now chatting, now a silent guide,
It's time to quit this dreary lee
And Flora's cheek, I quite agree;
So pleased with all he had in life:
My fertile fancies spring to life.
And spleen, he saw, would dog his life,
For country calm and lack of strife;
Like shadow or a faithful wife.
Himself, his dinner, and his wife.
The devil take you, Uncle. Die!'
To wander by the lonely lake
Each morning early I'm awake

Or was he profligate and hale
Of brushes for the modern male
The fire in both our hearts was pale;
Our lives were weary, flat, and stale;
The hero of my current tale:
And Strasbourg pie, that deathless fable;
A bloody roastbeef's on the table,
Compel belief, or make her tremble,
How early on he could dissemble,
Now my Eugene, Chadyev's double,
From jealous critics fearing trouble,
Extinguished ashes won't rekindle,
Within my soul will fade and dwindle:
His blend of banter and of bile,

Shall I abandon every scruple
And so, for all his fiery mettle,
To help those pies and beefsteaks settle,
His sombre wit and biting style.
And earn me tribute paid to fame:
The endless round, the varied game;
Distorted readings, noise, and blame!
Tomorrow too will be the same.
Until Brguet's unsleeping chime
Reminds him that it's dinner time.
My present novel's Chapter One.
That friend of freedom ruled the scene,
Onegin now has left the scene
So inaccessibly serene,

An endless bottle of champagne
Of twisted slanders might combine
I'll grant the censor's right to shine
But I've no wish to change a line;
My hero's features here with mine
The very flower of French cuisine,
The only clever thing he's done.
The hero's named, the plotting's done;
But pleased to have their duty done,
And recollect a time that's gone?
The priests and guests left one by one.
So we in fancy then were borne
Which young Semynova did share;
And then in private he'd prepare

Through drawing rooms he'd pass and stare;
But neither whist, nor gossip there,
And our Katnin gave us there
Have asked him to a grand soire.
Or all the passions they inspire;
The social buzz became a bore,
The manner grand can only bore.
And soon, quite soon, the tempest's core
That question you have put before:
The foot of sweet Terpsichore.
Or perched on granite by the shore.
His father ran up debts galore;
And now, my friends, I hear once more
And though I grieve, I weep no more;

Were objects of his thought no more.
Until he had no means for more.
Quite ceased to tempt him any more
And, presently, induced a snore;
You were the first that he forswore;
And honoured patron of the barre
But meanwhile, dressed for morning pleasure,
For luxury, for modish pleasure
In racing droshkies bound for pleasure
These clothes and faces with displeasure;
What from his prime had been his pleasure,
He takes a single glance to measure
His only torment, toil, and treasure,
Whatever Paris, seeking treasure,

You too, young mistresses of leisure,
To stroll about at total leisure,
But stop ... Enough! My babbling lyre
Through Albion's great and haughty lyre
Some raved or lied, and some were dense;
And then await sweet recompense.
Through force of passion and of sense,
Some lacked all conscience; some, all sense;
Along the Petersburg chausse
And quite contented with his fate,
Became in time our young man's fate,
Monsieur l'Abb was shown the gate.
Released to them the whole estate ...
Beneath a verse left incomplete,

Express himself and even write;
We're now no longer fit to write
On balls I madly used to dote:
Or for the passing of a note.
He did possess the happy forte
In dim Moldavia's vacant waste,
In current fashions of toilette,
But I, in love, was dense and mute.
The bailiff wrote as if on cue:
His aged uncle's time was due.
Or frighten with despairing tongue.
And rather glad he was, it's true,
The actual things that make it thrive,
And why for gold it need not strive,

Use flattery as warm incentive,
How shrewdly he could be inventive
Of pistol, sword, and ready glove.
He did at last give up his love
Amid his pleasures and their blaze,
No, never midst the fiercest blaze
But now Didelot is boring stuff.'
And yet I'll say on his behalf,
Against the rampart's granite shelf,
Quite sure he'll find Kavrin* pacing;
He's off to Talon's, late, and racing,
He gave the message one quick reading,
And then by post Eugene was speeding,
Once free, I seek again the blending

The Muse appeared as love was ending
He who has lived as thinking being
He who can feel is always fleeing
The German baker's up and baking,
In pleasant hubbub morn's awaking!
And all those beauties, once appealing,
I recollect the ocean rumbling:
Those rushing tides in tumult tumbling
Yes, soon he lost all warmth of feeling:
But where his genius proved unfailing,
I have no leisure for retailing
Only the sound of sentries calling,
The night grew still... with silence falling;
He found the manor fairly bustling

Both friends and foes had come ahustling,
Eugene stood lost in pensive dreaming
I liked his natural bent for dreaming,
My lyre sings! And in the gloaming
But I was born for peaceful roaming,
His strangeness that was more than seeming,
He calls a sleigh as daylight's dimming;
His collar with its beaver trimming
Filled with his heart's regrets, and leaning
The Latin vogue today is waning,
He had sufficient Latin training
Still sniffling, coughing, hissing, clapping;
And while the people still are tapping,
At times attentive, then uncaring!

So circumspect, so strict in bearing,
Appear so proud or so forbearing,
On top of which, they're so unerring,
Upon those feet these lips ... caressing.
I longed to join the waves in pressing
While Petersburg, already rousing,
But what of my Eugene? Half drowsing,
Of all that touches art or acting,
He's off!this critic most exacting
Yet in its mirror not reflecting
Diana's visagerecollecting
when, my soul, with waves contesting,
And caped in storms, shall I go questing
And friends and friendship less intriguing;

Inconstancy grew too fatiguing;
He crammed his bookshelf overflowing,
I might describe in terms more knowing
Then read and readfrustration growing:
Your interest piqued and doubtless growing
Onegin's uncle, sick and dying,
And sure enough a note came flying;
A lonely boat would sail along,
That's five and twenty cantos long!
To whom amid the jealous throng
And then I'll write this world a song
While far away some rousing song
Do you today devote your song?
And playfully astound the young,

And she my willing lips will teach
Both love's and Petrarch's ardent speech.
And there, where southern waves break high,
While thinking under every sigh:
'I've suffered ballets long enough,
The old was dated through and through,
To gloss a common epigraph,
Or sultry breast on which to languish.
Was I so racked with yearning's anguish:
I too there used to saunter forth,
But found it noxious in the north.
But pantaloons, gilet, and frock
These words are hardly Russian stock;
Within a cool and leafy nook.

By lonely fields and burbling brook,
And walked the boy in Letny Park.
He seldom punished any lark,
A laudable and worthy goal.
It's time, it's time! I bid her hail
For hair and teeth and fingernail.
And beckon to each passing sail.
May I present, as we set sail,
Amid his feasts to no avail?
The room where fashion's model pupil
In hired coach towards the ball.
He drives to bed from last night's ball,
At masquerade or midnight ball.
In man's attire to pay a call

The ghost of days beyond recall;
Oh, hearken to my woeful call:
Where will he make the night's first call?
Answers the drumbeat's duty call.
Oh, never mindhe'll make them all.
Within his soul must hold men small;
Yet not replaced you after all?
And hasten rather to forestall
Who'd ask for more? The world could tell
Which is to say that he could tell
That he had wit and charm as well.
And economics he knew well;
Of steady labour made him ill,
And nothing issued from his quill;

This dreadful ailment's heavy toll;
As did the skeptical old fool,
(Faublas' disciple and his tool),
We call it simply Russian soul.
The emptiness that plagues his soul
He lived, he breathed one single dream,
How self-oblivious he could seem!
Since, after all, I'm one of them.
But now the chime and watch alert them:
Another round would hardly hurt them,
Theocritus and Homer bored him,
But reading Adam Smith restored him,
What clever traps he'd set before him!
And how his wicked tongue would gore him!

Dared clean his nails in front of him,
Could not conceive how solemn Grimm
Our sage of eighteen summers' bloom.
All this adorned his dressing room,
Where maybe, reader, you began,
Was born beside the Neva's span,
He locked himself within his den
And truffles, youth's delight so keen,
Mere sight of them brings on the spleen.
In springtime on the meadow's green,
And driven home to change and preen.
Beneath the table barely seen,
Fly to the Neva's water then,
The day ahead all planned and taken:

By afternoon he'll finally waken,
And, with a yawn, took up his pen
And picture truly with my pen
To feed the critics' hungry pen.
But when he reached his uncle's haven,
He was preparedlike any craven
Is dressed, undressed, and dressed again?
Kept lessons light and rather plain;
To spare his charge excessive pain,
Seem cast in gloom or mute with pain,
Oh, blest is he who joins his pain
For after all he couldn't drain
And maddened pangs of love's refrain.
Conceal his hopes, play jealous swain,

While muffled by the violin
As did derivative Knyazhnin;
The wives their jealous gossip spin.
The daring satirist Fonvizin,
Of writerswhom I won't condemn
Our Academic Lexicon.
He dropped you too in sudden fashion.
Apostate from the storms of passion,
The brilliant madcap of confession.
Description, though, is my profession;
Rousseau (permit me this digression)
On yielding rugs in rich profusion;
In search of pleasure's sweet profusion;
Of glory, country, proud seclusion.

I'll float in gondola's seclusion;
Lacking the fervent dedication
We've all received an education
Adriatic! Grand Creation!
My spirit's own newborn creation!
Eugene, detesting litigation
We drank in silent contemplation
A lover's secret assignation...
So thank the Lord that in this nation
For nowadays in our great nation,
At first he'd beg a declaration,
To forest green and liberation,
And send these fruits of inspiration
Whose gaze, evoking inspiration,

When, filled once more with inspiration,
Whose form, in pensive adoration,
He never knew, to our frustration,
Great charm to private conversation;
Cite Juvenal in conversation, 
Of free and easy conversation,
And keep to silent meditation;
Capricious belles of lofty station!
Put vale in a salutation;
I liked his caustic disputation
With no great sense of deprivation;
So thus he failed to join the faction
And tried to write. But art's exaction
For him enchantment's deep infection

He lacked, it's true, all predilection
But knew by heart a fine collection
Is gone; the snake of recollection
And then maintain the shameless fiction
As if today, through some restriction,
This might well seem an indiscretion,
All poets, I need hardly mention,
I too have gazed in rapt attention
And when Eugene drew my attention,
I too had parted with convention,
I have of old relied upon
For one may be a man of reason
Enchanted land! There for a season,
Why argue vainly with the season?

By falling gravely ill, he's won
Blind fortune's malice and men's scorn.
Back to our springtime's golden morn.
While life was still but in its morn
And shall I then in silence yawn
To wash those sizzling cutlets down;
The brand new ballet's on in town!
That he'd found something else to do.
Since I dropped sinning long ago.
You loved instead to come and go
On soft Italian nights I'll go
The cry resounds: 'Make way! Let's go!'
And more than once, in cotton cap,
Has opened up his window-trap.

I read a little, often sleep,
For fleeting fame I do not weep.
And when he wished, he'd make appear
The quickly summoned, glistening tear!
Or in a grave dispute he'd wear
Upon the stage still romp and roar,
This fickel swain of every star,
Bedecked in broad-brimmed Bolivar,
Imported pipes of Turkish amber,
For otherwise some mocking reader
Or, God forbid, some wretched breeder
How keen his glance, how bold and tender;
You left no prints, no pressings tender,
What casual letters he would send her!

I roam the shore, await fair weather,
Curse masters and beat palms together;
And while the horses, bored at tether,
Will freedom comeand cut my tether?
Ongin, my good friend and brother,
Or sparkled in one way or other.
And purely to delight and pamper,
Above the Neva's placid water
How often in the summer quarter,
And here's Oneginlord and master
That former wastrel and disaster;
But let's abandon idle chatter
Our hero's headlong, dashing clatter
The stalls and pit are all ajitter;

While past its glassed-in windows flitter
The theatre's full, the boxes glitter;
And on the snow make rainbows glitter.
Discuss a Say or Bentham*ever;
I wouldn't say that ladies never
Or plaintive horn would make us shiver.
Or floating on the drowsy river,
But was he happy in the flower
The solemn expert's learned air
In silence to instruct the fair!
Then runs his fingers through his hair,
He's past the porter, up the stair,
It's sacred to Apollo's choir;
Still sleeps on furs at carriage door;

Upon the ballroom's mirrored floor,
Brought up in Oriental splendour,
Was love itself, the art of ardour,
Amid his conquests of the hour?
But wearied by the ballroom's clamour,
This child of comfort and of glamour,
By ending his proud days a martyr
And ships to us by Baltic seas
Of woods and mills and streams and lands;
A country squire, there he stands,
The shutters open, smoke ascends
I liked his ways and we made friends.
In pale blue shafts from chimney ends.
With vain pursuit of worldly ends;

My goddesses! You vanished faces!
One foot upon the ground she places,
And land of harsh, forbidding places;
Have other maidens gained your places,
To sigh for sombre Russia's spaces,
I write ... and want no more embraces;
Like down from Eol's lips she races;
My straying pen no longer traces,
The guardsman clinks his spurs and dances,
A hot pursuit of flaming glances;
Nor wanton sighs, nor tender glances
It hints to probing, ardent glances
Like Byron's Harold, lost in trances,
Of rich rewards and peerless trances;

In trade for tallow and for trees;
Shall I grow bored with mirth and rages,
On unknown faces on the stages?
Once more that touch ignites and urges
Once more imagination surges,
The merchant's up, the pedlar scurries,
With jug in hand the milkmaid hurries,
To fevered rhyme: for thus he doubles
Subduing passion's host of troubles,
Have drawn from love abundant themes;
Its token beauty stokes the fires,
The wilful swarm of hot desires.
His double glass he calmly centres
I give myself to harmless pleasures

And far niente rules my leisures:
My soul preserved their secret features;
The Muse then made them living creatures:
The droning music never ceases;
And steps inside. The crush increases,
'For whom these sighs your lyre raises?
And sang the Salghir captives' praises.
Steel files and combs in many guises,
Like flighty Venus when she chooses
The ways in which a state progresses
When basic products it possesses.
Before the fronts of darkened houses,
What? Invitations? Yes, three houses
My services to save your houses:

And so I offer, worthy spouses,
At least three hours he peruses
Some mornings still abed he drowses,
Along a street that gently drowses,
In quick succession silhouettes
The hearts of even skilled coquettes!
To fall about her feet like slaves!
O how I envied then the waves
Straight scissors, curved ones, thirty sizes
Has overpraised these haughty things:
The age of hopes and tender yearnings,
But when the age of restless turnings
They're hardly worth the songs one sings
Of shaded, idle times like this,

You stayed his friends despite all this:
And mind the beauty of his nails.
For custom's rule o'er man prevails.
I even now would worship balls.
In following where pleasure calls!
And now she leaps! And now she whirls!
And then the other slowly twirls,
When cherished beings filled my dreams.
For your sake smothered all my dreams
While Iso long ago it seems!
With far too many foreign loans;
That as it is my diction groans
There Ozerov received the nation's
In days of dreams and dissipations

No surer place for declarations,
Unbidden tears and its ovations,
A due respect for his afflictions
﻿'My uncle, man of firm convictions...
The restless gallery claps and roars;
The curtain rustles as it soars.
Two special feet. And in my slumbers
That all of Russia scarcely numbers
To greet an entrechat with cheers,
Or Cleopatra with his jeers,
To those with lavish whims and coffers,
Whatever clever London offers
But I prefer above these others
By making his the thoughts of others

Once more an idler, now he smothers
Diana's breast is charming, brothers,
But God, what deadly boredom, brothers,
May his example profit others;
As all applaud, Onegin enters
The country, love, green fields and flowers,
With what delight I praise those hours
A disenchanted opera glass,
His figure in the looking-glass;
And when across this world I pass
Then through his dressing room he'll pass
And what we called a fop, no less.
For I have known too well the witless
The crush, the glitter, and the gladness,

I love youth's wanton, fevered madness,
And how he'd seize a moment's weakness
To conquer youthful virtue's meekness
Why no one, friends, as God's my witness,
Rewards you with a soft caress?
Do you now clothe in sacred dress?'
Was quite the pedant in his dress
No rosy cheek that I might kiss,
But you, you men in wedded bliss,
No maiden's lips were equal bliss,
I spent my days of deepest bliss?
No cards, no balls, no poets' feats
With no great palaces, no streets,
To crush a rivaloh, what nets,

Of ladies and their modish pets.
Are Tasso's octaves' soaring flights.
But sweeter still, amid such nights,
Shall once again I hear your chants?
And while the weary band of servants
While all those cupids, devils, serpents
Ludmila's and Rusln's adherents!
The thing he'd learned above all arts,
The sum of all our hero's parts,
Pour forth their warm and cheerful glows
The double carriage lamps in rows
The very springtime of his days,
Of wildest youth's most fervent days
Were just as dull as city highways;

And then he saw that country byways
Some distant droshky's rumbling beat;
Then spins and twists and stops to beat
And listen for the heart's first beat,
Then stalk love fasterand entreat
Enchanting creatures that entreat
And treads on toes to reach his seat;
The shapes of ladies' heads and feet.
Her rapid, dazzling, dancing feet.
The charming ladies twirl their feet
Are quite as faithless as their feet.
On ladies he has yet to meet.
Or suddenly from Million Street
Their charming words and glances sweet

How long it took me to forget
The grove, the hill, the field, the thicket
His clothing for the learned set.
Three pairs of shapely feet...And yet,
Or shall my mournful gaze alight
One splendid house is all alight,
When midnight sky is limpid-light
He sleeps in blissful, sheer delight
Or manufactures for delight,
Like convicts sent in dreaming flight
Perform her soaring, soulful flight?
On any theme but our own plight.
In dancing too his step was light,
The balmy fragrance of the night!

Who turns each morning into night.
Don't lower your lorgnettes at night!
The river gay and sparkling bright,
Its countless lampions burning bright;
Devises to attract the sight,
To keep your daughters well in sight;
My dear Elvina, I adore it
In winter with the hearth before it,
But by the third he couldn't stick it:
And how the ladies' eyes he lit
The spleen is what the English call it,
We still, alas, cannot forestall it
With throbbing head about to split:
Or go on dropping words of wit

With flashes of his sudden wit!
Their talk's absurd, if harmless, cant.
Poised to the magic bow attendant,
But generally, you'll have to grant,
And there ... ethereal...resplendent,
And was it not in past enjoyment
Or seek some other sweet employment:
My fleeting, youthful days were spent.
There too, beneath the theatre's tent,
A little learning means a lot.
In something somehow, have we not?
And captures worldly fame to boot!
And where my buried heart is kept.
Where first I loved, where first I wept,

Once more the love ... once more the dart!
The blood within this withered heart:
Like Petrarch then, he calms the heart,
No, nothing touched his sombre heart,
So pious and so chaste of heart,
And grim repentance gnaws his heart.
Sweet idleness! You have my heart.
The sacred ecstasy of art;
So dignified, so awfully smart,
That set Eugene and me apart.
All this, of course, can help impart
And he recalled, at least in part,
He noticed nothing, took no part.
To sigh, deceive, and play his part

A line or two of Virgil's art.
(With which my novel took its start);
A learned, if pedantic, sort.
True lovers of a funeral feast.
And for which song he paid at last
Alive once more and free at last,
From Romulus to Tuesday last.
The loves and intrigues of the past,
Of anecdotes of ages past:
Which Ovid sang in ages past,
A dactyl from an anapest.
That sees in sounds life's highest quest,
For rooting in the ancient dust
Of history's annals full of must,

Still glitter grandly all about;
And while the lamps both in and out
The comet wine comes gushing out,
He enterscork and bottle spout!
Would like to bid his heir adieu.
Or else ... or else ... may God defend you!
You too, you mamas, I commend you
As through the dust by post he flew,
While nothing new was in the new;
Sole heir to all the kin he knew.
Perhaps he also dimly knew
And coachmen by the fire's glow
Monsieur l'Abb, a needy fellow,
His views on morals ever mellow,

It speaks to me in words I know.
All this I now can let you know,
Is silver bright with frosted snow.
Still fidget, freezing, in the snow,
Crackling the freshly fallen snow;
Upon our mournful northern snow.
But if indeed I overborrow,
And I confess (in public sorrow)
The cabby plods to hackney row.
To tend a sick man night and day,
What occupied, the livelong day,
His eyes toward the stage and play
His languid spirit's fretful play
The greedy horde demanding pay.

That Freedom's Champion went astray.
Until his valet brings his tray.
In this case, though, one has to say
Each to his own, or so they say.
Then yawned and turned his head away:
Who late at night are whisked away
Not daring once to steal away!
But look, Onegin's at the gateway;
Through marble entry rushes straightway,
Another memory finds me ready:
To join the crowd, where each is ready
To hiss at Phdreso unsteady,
And hold the lucky stirrup steady,
Beneath my Africa's warm sky,

And there the caustic Shakhovsky
An honest man who'd served sincerely,
I've looked it over most severely;
And pass him medicines morosely
In French he could and did acutely
And bows he'd mastered absolutely.
It has its contradictions, clearly,
He gave a ball some three times yearly,
And, oh, how base to pamper grossly
Refreshed the stage with comic joy,
And when he found it necessary
How early he could stir or worry
Where will he dash to, my good hearty?
There'll be a ball, a children's party;

