A London dandy, hair all curled,
A bloody roastbeef's on the table,
A bold mazurka grips the crowd,
Above the Neva's placid water
A charming lad, though somewhat wild.
A country squire, there he stands,
A dactyl from an anapest.
A disenchanted opera glass,
Adriatic! Grand Creation!
A due respect for his afflictions
A fair Venetian at my side,
Against the rampart's granite shelf,
Ah, dearest feet, where have you vanished?
A hot pursuit of flaming glances;

A laid-out corpse was what he found,
A laudable and worthy goal.
A learned, if pedantic, sort.
A line or two of Virgil's art.
A little learning means a lot.
Alive once more and free at last,
All gone are youth's bright years of grace,
All poets, I need hardly mention,
All this I now can let you know,
All this adorned his dressing room,
All this, of course, can help impart
A lonely boat would sail along,
Along a street that gently drowses,
Along the Petersburg chausse

A lover's secret assignation...
Already bored, to uncle's bed,
A mere self-portrait in the end;
Amid his conquests of the hour?
Amid his feasts to no avail?
Amid his pleasures and their blaze,
And Flora's cheek, I quite agree;
And I confess (in public sorrow)
And Strasbourg pie, that deathless fable;
And all those beauties, once appealing,
And beckon to each passing sail.
And bows he'd mastered absolutely.
And caped in storms, shall I go questing
And captures worldly fame to boot!

And cleared the darkened mind she found.
And coachmen by the fire's glow
And driven home to change and preen.
And earn me tribute paid to fame:
And economics he knew well;
And entertain the nearly dead,
And far niente rules my leisures:
And for us both, ahead there waited
And for which song he paid at last
And friends and friendship less intriguing;
And grim repentance gnaws his heart.
And hasten rather to forestall
And he recalled, at least in part,
And here's Oneginliberated,

And here's Oneginlord and master
And hold the lucky stirrup steady,
And honoured patron of the barre
And how he'd seize a moment's weakness
And how his wicked tongue would gore him!
And how the ladies' eyes he lit
And keep to silent meditation;
And land of harsh, forbidding places;
And listen for the heart's first beat,
And maddened pangs of love's refrain.
And meantime I've just now completed
And mind the beauty of his nails.
And more than once, in cotton cap,
And mortgaged all the land he could.

And nothing issued from his quill;
And now, my friends, I hear once more
And now she leaps! And now she whirls!
And, oh, how base to pamper grossly
And on my heart retain their hold.
And on the snow make rainbows glitter.
And our Katnin gave us there
And over all that dusty crowd
And pass him medicines morosely
And picture truly with my pen
And playfully astound the young,
And, presently, induced a snore;
And purely to delight and pamper,
And quite contented with his fate,

And rather glad he was, it's true,
And recollect a time that's gone?
And round Eugene there soon collected
And sang the Salghir captives' praises.
And send these fruits of inspiration
And shall I then in silence yawn
And she my willing lips will teach
And ships to us by Baltic seas
And so I offer, worthy spouses,
And so, for all his fiery mettle,
And soon, quite soon, the tempest's core
And spleen, he saw, would dog his life,
And steps inside. The crush increases,
And sure enough a note came flying;

And the majestic, antlered cuckold
And then I'll write this world a song
And then Monsieur took on the child,
And then await sweet recompense.
And then by post Eugene was speeding,
And then he saw that country byways
And then in private he'd prepare
And then maintain the shameless fiction
And then the other slowly twirls,
And there ... ethereal...resplendent,
And there the caustic Shakhovsky
And there, where southern waves break high,
And though I grieve, I weep no more;
And though, thank God, he never acted

And though the language of my friend
And treads on toes to reach his seat;
And tried to write. But art's exaction
And truffles, youth's delight so keen,
And walked the boy in Letny Park.
And was it not in past enjoyment
And what we called a fop, no less.
And when Eugene drew my attention,
And when across this world I pass
And when he found it necessary
And when he wished, he'd make appear
And where my buried heart is kept.
And while the horses, bored at tether,
And while the lamps both in and out

And while the people still are tapping,
And while the weary band of servants
And why for gold it need not strive,
And, with a yawn, took up his pen
And yet I'll say on his behalf,
An endless bottle of champagne
An honest man who'd served sincerely,
Another memory finds me ready:
Another round would hardly hurt them,
Answers the drumbeat's duty call.
Apostate from the storms of passion,
Appear so proud or so forbearing,
Are Tasso's octaves' soaring flights.
Are quite as faithless as their feet.

As all applaud, Onegin enters
As did derivative Knyazhnin;
As did the skeptical old fool,
As from the meadow your light trace.
As if today, through some restriction,
(As once some poet drew himselP).
As through the dust by post he flew,
At first Madame was in attendance;
At first disturbed me, in the end
At first he'd beg a declaration,
A throng of nymphs her guardian band,
At last he's ready for the world!
At least three hours he peruses
At masquerade or midnight ball.

At times attentive, then uncaring!
A word of warning should suffice.
Back to our springtime's golden morn.
Became in time our young man's fate,
Bedecked in broad-brimmed Bolivar,
Before the fronts of darkened houses,
Beneath a verse left incomplete,
Beneath my Africa's warm sky,
Beneath the table barely seen,
Blind fortune's malice and men's scorn.
Both friends and foes had come ahustling,
Both love's and Petrarch's ardent speech.
Brought up in Oriental splendour,
But God, what deadly boredom, brothers,

But I, in love, was dense and mute.
But I prefer above these others
But I've no wish to change a line;
But I was born for peaceful roaming,
But all too soon our paths divided,
But by the third he couldn't stick it:
But found it noxious in the north.
But generally, you'll have to grant,
But if indeed I overborrow,
But knew by heart a fine collection
But let's abandon idle chatter
But look, Onegin's at the gateway;
But meanwhile, dressed for morning pleasure,
But neither whist, nor gossip there,

But now Didelot is boring stuff.'
But now the chime and watch alert them:
But pantaloons, gilet, and frock
But pleased to have their duty done,
But reading Adam Smith restored him,
But stop ... Enough! My babbling lyre
But sweeter still, amid such nights,
But was he happy in the flower
But wearied by the ballroom's clamour,
But what of my Eugene? Half drowsing,
But when he reached his uncle's haven,
But when the age of restless turnings
But where his genius proved unfailing,
But you, you men in wedded bliss,

By afternoon he'll finally waken,
By ending his proud days a martyr
By falling gravely ill, he's won
By lonely fields and burbling brook,
By making his the thoughts of others
By mighty Zeus's will elected
By sylvan shade that lay implanted
Capricious belles of lofty station!
Cite Juvenal in conversation, 
Compel belief, or make her tremble,
Conceal his hopes, play jealous swain,
Corneille's full genius resurrected;
Could not conceive how solemn Grimm
Crackling the freshly fallen snow;

Curse masters and beat palms together;
Dared clean his nails in front of him,
Description, though, is my profession;
Devises to attract the sight,
Diana's breast is charming, brothers,
Diana's visagerecollecting
Didelot his crown of fame perfected.
Discuss a Say or Bentham*ever;
Distorted readings, noise, and blame!
Don't lower your lorgnettes at night!
Do you now clothe in sacred dress?'
Do you today devote your song?
Each morning early I'm awake
Each to his own, or so they say.

Each with a different dogma girded;
Enchanted land! There for a season,
Enchanting creatures that entreat
Eugene and I had both decided
Eugene, detesting litigation
Eugene stood lost in pensive dreaming
Express himself and even write;
Extinguished ashes won't rekindle,
Far from the Rome his heart embraced.
Fate watched Eugene in his dependence;
(Faublas' disciple and his tool),
Filled with his heart's regrets, and leaning
Fine china, bronzesall displayed;
Fly to the Neva's water then,

For I have known too well the witless
For after all he couldn't drain
For country calm and lack of strife;
For custom's rule o'er man prevails.
For fate took matters into hand.
For fleeting fame I do not weep.
For hair and teeth and fingernail.
For him enchantment's deep infection
For luxury, for modish pleasure
For nowadays in our great nation,
For one may be a man of reason
For otherwise some mocking reader
For rooting in the ancient dust
For two full days he was enchanted

'For whom these sighs your lyre raises?
For your sake smothered all my dreams
From Romulus to Tuesday last.
From jealous critics fearing trouble,
Great charm to private conversation;
Has opened up his window-trap.
Has overpraised these haughty things:
Have asked him to a grand soire.
Have drawn from love abundant themes;
Have other maidens gained your places,
He calls a sleigh as daylight's dimming;
He crammed his bookshelf overflowing,
He did at last give up his love
He did possess the happy forte

He draped a linen mourning shroud.
He drives to Nevsky Boulevard,
He drives to bed from last night's ball,
He dropped you too in sudden fashion.
He enterscork and bottle spout!
He found the manor fairly bustling
He gave a ball some three times yearly,
He gave the message one quick reading,
He had sufficient Latin training
He lacked, it's true, all predilection
He lived, he breathed one single dream,
He locked himself within his den
He never knew, to our frustration,
He noticed nothing, took no part.

Her rapid, dazzling, dancing feet.
He seldom punished any lark,
He sleeps in blissful, sheer delight
He's off!this critic most exacting
He's off to Talon's, late, and racing,
He's past the porter, up the stair,
He takes a single glance to measure
He turned at last and vaguely fluttered
He was preparedlike any craven
He who can feel is always fleeing
He who has lived as thinking being
Himself, his dinner, and his wife.
His aged uncle's time was due.
His blend of banter and of bile,

His clothing for the learned set.
His collar with its beaver trimming
His double glass he calmly centres
His eyes toward the stage and play
His father diedquite unexpected,
His father never understood
His father ran up debts galore;
His figure in the looking-glass;
His former love of life was dead.
His languid spirit's fretful play
His only torment, toil, and treasure,
His sombre wit and biting style.
His strangeness that was more than seeming,
His views on morals ever mellow,

How early he could stir or worry
How early on he could dissemble,
How keen his glance, how bold and tender;
How long it took me to forget
How often in the summer quarter,
How self-oblivious he could seem!
How shrewdly he could be inventive
I even now would worship balls.
I give myself to harmless pleasures
I have no leisure for retailing
I have of old relied upon
I hear at last your magic voice!
I liked his caustic disputation
I liked his natural bent for dreaming,

I liked his ways and we made friends.
I'll float in gondola's seclusion;
I'll grant the censor's right to shine
I longed to join the waves in pressing
I love their feetalthough you'll find
I love youth's wanton, fevered madness,
I might describe in terms more knowing
Imported pipes of Turkish amber,
In French he could and did acutely
In cherished dreams I sometimes stand
Inconstancy grew too fatiguing;
In current fashions of toilette,
In dancing too his step was light,
In days of dreams and dissipations

In dim Moldavia's vacant waste,
In following where pleasure calls!
In hired coach towards the ball.
In man's attire to pay a call
In pale blue shafts from chimney ends.
In pleasant hubbub morn's awaking!
In quick succession silhouettes
In racing droshkies bound for pleasure
In search of pleasure's sweet profusion;
In silence to instruct the fair!
In something somehow, have we not?
In springtime on the meadow's green,
In this case, though, one has to say
In trade for tallow and for trees;

In what grim desert, madman, banished,
In winter with the hearth before it,
I pray you, heed my sound advice,
I read a little, often sleep,
I recollect the ocean rumbling:
I roam the shore, await fair weather,
Is dressed, undressed, and dressed again?
Is gone; the snake of recollection
I spent my days of deepest bliss?
Is silver bright with frosted snow.
Istmina takes up her stand.
It has its contradictions, clearly,
It hints to probing, ardent glances
I too had parted with convention,

I too have gazed in rapt attention
I too there used to saunter forth,
Its countless lampions burning bright;
It speaks to me in words I know.
It's sacred to Apollo's choir;
'It's time for something new,' he muttered,
It's time, it's time! I bid her hail
It's time to quit this dreary lee
Its token beauty stokes the fires,
I've drawn a plan and know what's needed,
I've looked it over most severely;
'I've suffered ballets long enough,
I was embittered, he depressed;
I wouldn't say that ladies never

I write ... and want no more embraces;
Just so a youthful rake reflected,
Just so in carefree song I paid
Kept lessons light and rather plain;
Lacking the fervent dedication
Like Byron's Harold, lost in trances,
Like Petrarch then, he calms the heart,
Like convicts sent in dreaming flight
Like down from Eol's lips she races;
Like flighty Venus when she chooses
Like shadow or a faithful wife.
Ludmila's and Rusln's adherents!
May I present, as we set sail,
May his example profit others;

Mere sight of them brings on the spleen.
Monsieur l'Abb, a needy fellow,
Monsieur l'Abb was shown the gate.
My dear Elvina, I adore it
My fertile fancies spring to life.
My fleeting, youthful days were spent.
My goddesses! You vanished faces!
My hero's features here with mine
My lyre sings! And in the gloaming
My present novel's Chapter One.
My services to save your houses:
My soul preserved their secret features;
My spirit's own newborn creation!
My straying pen no longer traces,

My tribute to the mountain maid,
﻿'My uncle, man of firm convictions...
No cards, no balls, no poets' feats
No maiden's lips were equal bliss,
No, never midst the fiercest blaze
No, never once did passion's flood
No, nothing touched his sombre heart,
No rosy cheek that I might kiss,
Nor wanton sighs, nor tender glances
No surer place for declarations,
Not daring once to steal away!
Now chatting, now a silent guide,
Now my Eugene, Chadyev's double,
O Brenta! I shall yet rejoice,

Of all that touches art or acting,
Of anecdotes of ages past:
Of brushes for the modern male
Of feeling, thought, and magic sound.
Of free and easy conversation,
Of glory, country, proud seclusion.
Of history's annals full of must,
Of ladies and their modish pets.
Of pistol, sword, and ready glove.
Of rich rewards and peerless trances;
Of shaded, idle times like this,
Of steady labour made him ill,
Of twisted slanders might combine
Of wildest youth's most fervent days

Of woods and mills and streams and lands;
Of writerswhom I won't condemn
Oh, blest is he who joins his pain
Oh, hearken to my woeful call:
Oh, never mindhe'll make them all.
O how I envied then the waves
On any theme but our own plight.
On balls I madly used to dote:
Once free, I seek again the blending
Once more an idler, now he smothers
Once more imagination surges,
Once more that touch ignites and urges
Once more the love ... once more the dart!
One foot upon the ground she places,

Onegin now has left the scene
Onegin's uncle, sick and dying,
Onegin was, so some decided
One splendid house is all alight,
Ongin, my good friend and brother,
On ladies he has yet to meet.
Only the sound of sentries calling,
On soft Italian nights I'll go
On top of which, they're so unerring,
On unknown faces on the stages?
On yielding rugs in rich profusion;
Or Cleopatra with his jeers,
Or, God forbid, some wretched breeder
Or all the passions they inspire;

Or else ... or else ... may God defend you!
Or floating on the drowsy river,
Or for the passing of a note.
Or frighten with despairing tongue.
Or go on dropping words of wit
Or in a grave dispute he'd wear
Or manufactures for delight,
Or perched on granite by the shore.
Or plaintive horn would make us shiver.
Or seek some other sweet employment:
Or see the Russian muse of dance
Or shall my mournful gaze alight
Or sparkled in one way or other.
Or suddenly from Million Street

Or sultry breast on which to languish.
Or was he profligate and hale
Our Academic Lexicon.
Our hero's headlong, dashing clatter
Our lives were weary, flat, and stale;
Our sage of eighteen summers' bloom.
Perform her soaring, soulful flight?
Perfumes in crystal jars arrayed;
Perhaps he also dimly knew
Poised to the magic bow attendant,
Pour forth their warm and cheerful glows
Prepared as tribute for the ground.
Put vale in a salutation;
Quite ceased to tempt him any more

Quite sure he'll find Kavrin* pacing;
Recall Moi'na ... and rejoice
Refreshed the stage with comic joy,
Released to them the whole estate ...
Reminds him that it's dinner time.
Rewards you with a soft caress?
Rousseau (permit me this digression)
Seem cast in gloom or mute with pain,
Shall I abandon every scruple
Shall I grow bored with mirth and rages,
Shall once again I hear your chants?
Since I dropped sinning long ago.
Since, after all, I'm one of them.
Sits ananas in splendid gold.

So books, like women, he deserted,
So circumspect, so strict in bearing,
So dignified, so awfully smart,
So inaccessibly serene,
Sole heir to all the kin he knew.
Some distant droshky's rumbling beat;
Some lacked all conscience; some, all sense;
Some mornings still abed he drowses,
Some raved or lied, and some were dense;
So much of life have I neglected
So pious and so chaste of heart,
So pleased with all he had in life:
So rend my soul, so flame my blood.
So thank the Lord that in this nation

So thus he failed to join the faction
So we in fancy then were borne
Steel files and combs in many guises,
Still fidget, freezing, in the snow,
Still glitter grandly all about;
Still sleeps on furs at carriage door;
Still sniffling, coughing, hissing, clapping;
Straight scissors, curved ones, thirty sizes
(Strict judges, not to be derided),
Subduing passion's host of troubles,
Sweet idleness! You have my heart.
That Freedom's Champion went astray.
That all of Russia scarcely numbers
That as it is my diction groans

That everyone has heard his voice.
That former wastrel and disaster;
That friend of freedom ruled the scene,
That he'd found something else to do.
That he had wit and charm as well.
That, like proud Byron, I have penned
That question you have put before:
That sees in sounds life's highest quest,
That set Eugene and me apart.
That's five and twenty cantos long!
The German baker's up and baking,
The Latin vogue today is waning,
The Muse appeared as love was ending
The Muse then made them living creatures:

The actual things that make it thrive,
The age of hopes and tender yearnings,
The bailiff wrote as if on cue:
The balmy fragrance of the night!
The blood within this withered heart:
The brand new ballet's on in town!
The brilliant madcap of confession.
The cabby plods to hackney row.
The charming ladies twirl their feet
The cold sharp mind that he possessed;
The comet wine comes gushing out,
The country, love, green fields and flowers,
The crafty husband fawned and chuckled
The crush, the glitter, and the gladness,

The cry resounds: 'Make way! Let's go!'
The curtain rustles as it soars.
The daring satirist Fonvizin,
The day ahead all planned and taken:
The devil take you, Uncle. Die!'
The double carriage lamps in rows
The droning music never ceases;
The emptiness that plagues his soul
The endless round, the varied game;
The fire in both our hearts was pale;
The foot of sweet Terpsichore.
The ghost of days beyond recall;
The greedy horde demanding pay.
The grove, the hill, the field, the thicket

The guardsman clinks his spurs and dances,
The hearts of even skilled coquettes!
The hero of my current tale:
The hero's named, the plotting's done;
Their charming words and glances sweet
Their talk's absurd, if harmless, cant.
The ladies' gowns so well designed;
The loves and intrigues of the past,
The manner grand can only bore.
The merchant's up, the pedlar scurries,
Then feel her foot within my hand!
The night grew still... with silence falling;
Then read and readfrustration growing:
Then runs his fingers through his hair,

Then spins and twists and stops to beat
Then stalk love fasterand entreat
Then through his dressing room he'll pass
Then trading bows on every side
Then, wined and dined and heavy-hearted,
Then yawned and turned his head away:
Theocritus and Homer bored him,
The old was dated through and through,
The only clever thing he's done.
The press intense, the hubbub loud;
The priests and guests left one by one.
The quickly summoned, glistening tear!
There Ozerov received the nation's
There'll be a ball, a children's party;

The restless gallery claps and roars;
There too, beneath the theatre's tent,
The river gay and sparkling bright,
The room where fashion's model pupil
The sacred ecstasy of art;
These clothes and faces with displeasure;
These words are hardly Russian stock;
The shapes of ladies' heads and feet.
The shutters open, smoke ascends
The social buzz became a bore,
The solemn expert's learned air
The spleen is what the English call it,
The stalls and pit are all ajitter;
The sum of all our hero's parts,

The theatre's full, the boxes glitter;
The thing he'd learned above all arts,
The very flower of French cuisine,
The very springtime of his days,
The ways in which a state progresses
The wilful swarm of hot desires.
The wives their jealous gossip spin.
They laid to rest the dear departed;
They're hardly worth the songs one sings
They still assail a soul grown cold
This child of comfort and of glamour,
This dreadful ailment's heavy toll;
This fickel swain of every star,
This might well seem an indiscretion,

Those rushing tides in tumult tumbling
Three pairs of shapely feet...And yet,
Through Albion's great and haughty lyre
Through drawing rooms he'd pass and stare;
Through force of passion and of sense,
Through marble entry rushes straightway,
To conquer youthful virtue's meekness
To crush a rivaloh, what nets,
To fad and fashion newly mated:
To fall about her feet like slaves!
To feed the critics' hungry pen.
To fevered rhyme: for thus he doubles
To fluff the pillows for his head,
To forest green and liberation,

To gloss a common epigraph,
To greet an entrechat with cheers,
To help those pies and beefsteaks settle,
To hiss at Phdreso unsteady,
To join the crowd, where each is ready
To keep your daughters well in sight;
To make the foreign tour we'd planned;
Tomorrow too will be the same.
To put a bullet through his head,
To sigh, deceive, and play his part
To sigh for sombre Russia's spaces,
To spare his charge excessive pain,
To stroll about at total leisure,
To tend a sick man night and day,

To those with lavish whims and coffers,
To wander by the lonely lake
To wash those sizzling cutlets down;
To whom amid the jealous throng
True lovers of a funeral feast.
'Twas this our hero had contracted;
Two special feet. And in my slumbers
Unbidden tears and its ovations,
Until Brguet's unsleeping chime
Until he had no means for more.
Until his valet brings his tray.
Upon our mournful northern snow.
Upon the ballroom's mirrored floor,
Upon the crossroads of the sea?

Upon the stage still romp and roar,
Upon those feet these lips ... caressing.
Use flattery as warm incentive,
Was I so racked with yearning's anguish:
Was born beside the Neva's span,
Was love itself, the art of ardour,
Was quite the pedant in his dress
We call it simply Russian soul.
We drank in silent contemplation
Were just as dull as city highways;
We're now no longer fit to write
Were objects of his thought no more.
We still, alas, cannot forestall it
We've all received an education

What? Invitations? Yes, three houses
What casual letters he would send her!
What clever traps he'd set before him!
Whatever Paris, seeking treasure,
Whatever clever London offers
What fiery art his speech revealed!
What from his prime had been his pleasure,
What languor when his lips were sealed,
What occupied, the livelong day,
What vernal flowers do you tread?
When basic products it possesses.
When cherished beings filled my dreams.
When, filled once more with inspiration,
When midnight sky is limpid-light

Where first I loved, where first I wept,
Where maybe, reader, you began,
Where will he dash to, my good hearty?
Where will he make the night's first call?
Which Ovid sang in ages past,
Which is to say that he could tell
Which young Semynova did share;
While Iso long ago it seems!
While Petersburg, already rousing,
While all those cupids, devils, serpents
While far away some rousing song
While life was still but in its morn
While muffled by the violin
While next to Limburg's lively mould

While nothing new was in the new;
While past its glassed-in windows flitter
While thinking under every sigh:
While thoughts of money filled his head.
Who'd ask for more? The world could tell
Who late at night are whisked away
Whose form, in pensive adoration,
Whose gaze, evoking inspiration,
Who turns each morning into night.
Why argue vainly with the season?
Why no one, friends, as God's my witness,
Will freedom comeand cut my tether?
Will you at last cut memory's thread?
With far too many foreign loans;

With flashes of his sudden wit!
Within a cool and leafy nook.
Within his soul must hold men small;
Within my soul will fade and dwindle:
With jug in hand the milkmaid hurries,
With men he knew or friends he spied,
With no great palaces, no streets,
With no great sense of deprivation;
Without a foreword's interference,
With passion's game we both were sated;
With those who'd known the now deceased;
With throbbing head about to split:
With vain pursuit of worldly ends;
With what delight I praise those hours

(With which my novel took its start);
Would like to bid his heir adieu.
Yes, soon he lost all warmth of feeling:
Yet in its mirror not reflecting
Yet not replaced you after all?
Yet were not morals ill affected
You left no prints, no pressings tender,
You loved instead to come and go
Your interest piqued and doubtless growing
You stayed his friends despite all this:
You too, you mamas, I commend you
You too, young mistresses of leisure,
You were the first that he forswore;
when, my soul, with waves contesting,

